# snakeAI
Create, train, or view statistics on neural networks trained with a genetic algorithm on the game Snake.

Requirements:
    TensorFlow 
    PyGAD
    matplotlib
    Numpy


Usage:
    Create a model with the Create command, train it using the Train command, and view it's stats using the Plot or Compare command. View how it plays visually with Run.
    Some models are supplied already trained, these can be seen in the Agents/Models tab, they can be used like any other model.
    The best overall performing model is "TrueJohnSnake".

How To Run:
    Open root folder 
    run "py main.py [-h] <command> [arguments]"

Commands:
    create                                                  Create a new model.
    train                                                   Train an existing model.
    run                                                     Run a game with a model.
    plot                                                    Plot the fitness of a model.
    compare                                                 Plot the fitness of multiple models on a graph.


Create:
    Creates a model with specified structure, then saves it to the models folder. Does not train the model. Names are not case sensitive.
    
    NOTE: This WILL overwrite existing models if the names match, be careful.

    Options:
    -h, --help                                              Show this help message and exit.
    -n NAME, --name NAME                                    Model name.                   
    -l LAYERS [LAYERS ...], --layers LAYERS [LAYERS ...]    List of integers corresponding to nodes in each hidden layer.

    Usage: main.py create [-h] -n NAME -l LAYERS [LAYERS ...]


Train:
    Takes a prexisting model by name, and runs the genetic algorithm according to the supplied parameters. Will save model when done, and every 50 generations. 
    Generates stats every 50 generations and when finished to be used with Plot and Compare functions.

    NOTE: Will throw an error if the specified model does not exist.

    Options:
    -h, --help                                              Show this help message and exit.
    -n NAME, --name NAME                                    Name of model to train.
    -g GENERATIONS, --generations GENERATIONS               Number of generations to run.
    -pop POPULATION, --population POPULATION                Number of models in population.
    -par PARENTS, --parents PARENTS                         Number of parents to be selected.

    Usage: main.py train [-h] -n NAME -g GENERATIONS -pop POPULATION -par PARENTS


Run:
    Takes an existing model by name, and plays a game of snake with it, displayed on a GUI.

    NOTE: Will throw an error if the specified model does not exist.
    
    Options:
    -h, --help                                              Show this help message and exit.
    -n NAME, --name NAME                                    Name of model to run game.

    Usage: main.py run [-h] -n NAME


Plot:
    Gets the stats generated by the given models last training run, and displays them on a graph.

    NOTE: Will throw an error if the specified model does not exist or has never been trained.

    Options:
    -h, --help                                              Show this help message and exit.
    -n NAME, --name NAME                                    Name of model to plot.
    
    Usage: main.py plot [-h] -n NAME


Compare:
    Gets the stats generated by a group of models, and displays them all on a graph. 

    NOTE: Will throw an error if any of the specified models do not exist or have never been trained.

    options:
    -h, --help                                              Show this help message and exit
    -N NAMES [NAMES ...], --names NAMES [NAMES ...]         Names of models to plot.
                            